---
author: oliver
title: 0.9.0 Stable Release
---

The InvenTree team is very excited to announce the InvenTree **0.9.0 Stable Release**!

This release is the culmination of many hours of work from multiple developers, providing numerous new features and bug fixes. We extend our thanks to the contributors who have helped on this release, as well as the users who have suggested new features or helped us track down outstanding software issues.

## New Features

The 0.9.0 release introduces many new features - some of the major ones are outlined briefly below:

### Installer

We now have a packaged command-line installer for simplified setup (on supported platforms), using the [packager.io](https://packager.io/) service. The installer is targetted for users who are installing InvenTree on a bare metal system (separate installers are available for container environments).

You can find more information about the installer at [docs.inventree.org](https://docs.inventree.org/en/latest/start/installer/).

### Backup and Restore

Database backup and restore functionality has been improved, using the [dbbackup library](https://django-dbbackup.readthedocs.io/en/master/). A backup of database records (and uploaded media files) can be performed with a simple command line action. Backup can also be configured to occur periodically, serviced by the background worker.

### Pricing Overhaul

This release provides a major overhaul for how pricing data is managed. The new pricing system calculates various pricing information (such as BOM cost or purchase price range) and caches this data in the database. This means that the efficiency of accessing pricing data in real time is greatly improved. For complex bills of material, viewing pricing data was (before this update) extremely prohibitive, due to the recursive calculations which were being performed "on the fly". The new achitecture makes use of the background worker to recalculate pricing information whenever the underlying data changes, ensuring that "up to date" pricing is readily available.

Additionally, more options for controlling how pricing information is calculated and handled have been implemented.

You can read more about managing pricing data in InvenTree at [docs.inventree.org](https://docs.inventree.org/en/latest/part/pricing/).

### Barcode Refactor

### Builtin Plugins

### Validation Plugins

### News Reader

### Part Scheduling

- New features

### Supplier Pack Size

- New feature description
- Pricing integration

### Input Sanitization

- Remove invisible chars
- Sanitize SVG
- Blean cleaning of form fields

### Iconic

- Custom icons

### Make a Splash

- Custom splash screen
- Custom logo

### Bug Fixes

- Lots of bug fixes
- Refer to the release notes

### Release Notes

You can view the [full release notes](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/releases/tag/0.9.0) on our GitHub page.