---
author: SchrodingersGat
title: 0.11.0 Stable Release
---

The InvenTree development team is proud to announce the 0.11.0 stable release!

## New Features

We are thrilled to announce the latest stable release of Inventree, version 0.11.0, packed with exciting new features and improvements! This release has been made possible thanks to the hard work and dedication of our incredible community of contributors. With a wide range of new features, InvenTree 0.11.0 is a significant step forward in empowering businesses to streamline their inventory processes and optimize their workflows. We can't wait for you to try it out!

### Return Orders

The addition of [Return Orders](https://docs.inventree.org/en/latest/sell/return/) is a significant new feature, which allows users to easily process and manage returned items, whether they are due to customer refunds or defective products. With the ability to track the status of return orders and the associated inventory movements, businesses can better manage their inventory levels, reduce waste, and improve their customer service.

### Stocktake Reports

Another great new feature in the latest release of InvenTree is the ability to generate [detailed stocktake reports](https://docs.inventree.org/en/latest/part/stocktake/). This feature enables businesses to conduct accurate and efficient inventory audits by providing periodic information on stock levels, locations, and movements. With this feature, businesses can view historical inventory levels, providing data for improved decision-making. The stocktake report feature also allows for customizations such as filtering by location, category, or supplier, providing a tailored view of inventory levels to meet specific business needs. Overall, the ability to generate stocktake reports is a significant enhancement to InvenTree, enabling businesses to take control of their inventory management and streamline their operations.

### Improved Barcode Support

The latest release provides improved barcode support, with the ability to generate barcodes for all order types, in addition to assigning custom barcodes.

## Bug Fixes

Multiple bug fixes (ranging from minor to significant) have been implemented. Many of these bugs have been reported (and even fixed) by our users. Your feedback really helps improve the software and make it more useful for everyone!

## Release Notes

As always, the full set of release notes and changelogs is [available on our GitHub Page](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/releases/tag/0.11.0).