---
author: SchrodingersGat
title: Docker Setup Guide
---

## InvenTree in Docker

InvenTree can be run in a Docker container, which provides a simple and consistent way to run the application. This is the recommended way to run InvenTree in a production environment, without needing to worry about the complexities of setting up all the required software dependencies.

Our documentation server provides the following docker guides, which are a great starting point for anyone looking to run InvenTree in a Docker container:

### Docker Basics

The [Docker Basics](https://docs.inventree.org/en/stable/start/docker/) guide provides a good introduction to how InvenTree works in Docker, and includes a lot of useful background information about Docker itself.

### Docker Installation

The [Docker Installation](https://docs.inventree.org/en/stable/start/docker_install/) guide provides a step-by-step guide to setting up a production InvenTree installation using Docker / Docker Compose.

In this blog post, we will follow through the steps outlined in the Docker Installation guide, to get an InvenTree installation off the ground with minimal fuss.

## Digital Ocean

We will be using a Digital Ocean droplet to host our InvenTree installation. Digital Ocean provides a simple and cost-effective way to host web applications, and is a great choice for hosting InvenTree.

While we use Digital Ocean for this tutorial, the steps outlined here should be applicable to any cloud hosting provider.

*Note: Digital Ocean is a sponsor of the InvenTree project, and provides hosting for our [demo server](https://demo.inventree.org).*
