---
author: SchrodingersGat
title: 1.0.0 Release
---

## 1.0.0 Release

The 1.0.0 release marks a major milestone for the InvenTree project. Not only does it represent an important step in the evolution of the software, but it also introduces a host of new features and improvements that enhance the user experience.

This release includes significant updates to the user interface, performance optimizations, and a range of new functionalities that have been requested by our community.

With [over 550 closed issues](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/pulls?q=is%3Apr+milestone%3A1.0.0+), this release is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our contributors. We are excited to see how these changes will benefit users and help them manage their inventories more effectively.

## Overview of Changes

### User Interface Overhaul

By far the largest change introduced in this release is the new user interface. The UI has been completely refactored to use a modern javascript / React framework, which allows for a more responsive and dynamic user experience. This change not only improves the performance of the application but also makes it easier to maintain and extend in the future.

The general "look and feel" of the InvenTree UI remains consistent with previous versions, but the underlying technology has been updated to provide a more robust and flexible foundation for future development.

### Plugin System Enhancements

The plugin system has received significat attention in this release. In particular, the plugin system now provides a mechanism for plugins to render their own user interface componenents within the new UI framework.

To this end, we have released an [npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inventreedb/ui) that provides an interface layer for plugins looking to render custom components within the InvenTree UI.

Additionally, we now have a [plugin creation tool](https://github.com/inventree/plugin-creator/) which allows users to quickly scaffold InvenTree plugins.

### Dashboard

The new user interface now includes a customizable dashboard that allows users to add, remove, and rearrange widgets according to their preferences. This feature provides a more personalized experience and enables users to focus on the information that is most relevant to them.

This dashboard can be extended with custom widgets provided by plugins, allowing for even greater flexibility and customization.

### Data Import and Export

Our data import and export framework has been completely rewritten, and replaced with a custom API driven solution.

### Performance Improvements

We have made significant performance improvements across the board, particularly in areas such as data loading and rendering. The new UI framework is designed to be more efficient, which should result in a smoother experience for users, especially when dealing with large datasets.

The API has also been optimized to reduce response times and improve overall performance.

### And More...

For a full list of changes made in this release, please see the [release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/releases/tag/1.0.0). The major changes are documented below, but there are many other improvements and bug fixes that have been implemented as well.

## Major Changes

### Breaking Changes

### Security Fixes

### Database Changes

### New Features

### Devops Changes

### Bug Fixes

## Contributors

## Sponsoring the Project

## Future Plans