---
author: SchrodingersGat
title: 1.4.0 Release
---

InvenTree 1.4.0 has been released! This release includes a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes. We recommend all users to update to this version as soon as possible.

### Changelog

Major changes are documented in the `CHANGELOG.md` file in the repository. For a full list of changes, please refer to the [release notes](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/releases/tag/1.4.0).

### Update Procedure

To update to the latest version of InvenTree, please follow the updating instructions provided in the [InvenTree documentation](https://docs.inventree.org). Note that the particular update procedure may vary depending on your installation method.

## Breaking Changes

## Security Fixes

### Advisories

## New Features

## Bug Fixes

## Contributing

InvenTree is an open source project, and we welcome contributions from the community. There are many ways to contribute to the project, including code contributions, translation efforts, documentation improvements, and financial support.

### New Contributors

### Code Contributions

Check out our GitHub page for a list of [outstanding issues](https://github.com/inventree/InvenTree/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22) and feature requests. If you are a developer or want to become one, you can help to contribute to the project by submitting a pull request.

### Translation

Our [translation efforts](https://crowdin.com/project/inventree) continue to grow, with coverage increasing across a wide range of languages. We are grateful to all of our translators who have contributed to making InvenTree accessible to users around the world.

If you are interested in contributing to the translation efforts, please visit our [Crowdin project](https://crowdin.com/project/inventree) and join the community of translators.

### Documentation / Technical Writing

If you have experience with technical writing, you can help to improve the InvenTree documentation. We are always looking for help to improve the documentation and make it more accessible to new users.

### Report Bugs

If you encounter a bug in InvenTree, please report it on our [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/inventree/inventree/issues). Please ensure that you provide as much information as possible to help us diagnose and fix the issue.


### Financial Contributions

Sponsorships help to keep this project sustainable, and buys time for the core developers to commit to the project. A recurring or one off sponsorship is a great way to help InvenTree development to continue at full steam!

The work undertaken to keep InvenTree running is done by a very small group of core developers, who do so in their spare time (and are not sponsored by their employers to work on InvenTree). If you benefit from the InvenTree project, please consider contributing to maintain vibrant development of this software!

- [GitHub](/fund#github-sponsors)

If you are using InvenTree in a commercial setting, please consider sponsoring the project to help support ongoing development and maintenance. Your support is greatly appreciated and helps to ensure that InvenTree remains a viable and sustainable project for years to come.

If your company benefits from InvenTree, please consider a [one time sponsorship](/fund#polar) or a [recurring sponsorship](/fund#polar) to help support the project.